Today we are going to talk about two
very popular health insurance plans in
the market that are often discussed for
very different reasons. So one plans
gives you up to four times coverage on
your base inured and without paying any
extra premium while the other plan
offers an option of unlimited sumsured.
So on paper both of these plans seems
quite similar and appear to offer
powerful benefits which is why many
people get confused between them. But
the real question is which plan actually
delivers more value in real life and how
many meaningful features do you truly
get for the premium you pay and more
importantly which plan is genuinely
useful and which one is simply riding on
market hype and that's why we will see
which plan offers more benefit at a
reasonable premium and where you don't
have to keep adding multiple riders just
to meet basic healthcare needs and at
the same time we will also identify
which plan charges a higher premium it
still failed to cover essential feature
or does not offer benefit that are truly
relevant in today's medical landscape.
So in today's video we will do a
detailed comparison between SDFCO optima
secure and IC lumbard elevate and we
will look at everything from network
hospital claim settlement ratio
eligibility criteria unique benefits
optional covers waiting periods
discounts and finally the premium. So by
the end of this video you will clearly
understand which of these two plans is
actually worth your money and which one
may only look good on paper. So before
we start, if you are watching me for the
very first time, so hi, I'm Mariam and I
represent PolicyHub. And at PolicyHub,
we focus on simplifying insurance and
making it transparent so that you can
take confident and informed decision for
yourself and for your family. If you
prefer watching videos in Hindi, you can
check out our Hindi channel and the name
of which is displayed on your screen.
And if you want to watch more videos in
English and you if you want to watch
videos of other plans including reviews
of other health insurance plans and
details comparisons like this one, you
can explore them right here on this
channel and you can also find us on
social media where we regularly share
useful insurance insights and updates.
So do take a moment to explore that as
well. And now let's begin with the
comparison. Let's first talk about claim
settlement ratio. So when it comes to
claim settlement ratio which is one of
the strongest indicators of an
insurers's reliability SDFC Optima
secure it stand out with an impressive
ratio of around 99.8% with an ICR of
84%. And this reflects a strong track
record in settling claims smoothly. And
whereas ICC Lombard Elevate on the other
hand has a claim settlement ratio of
approximately 97% and 82% ICR which is
still decent but comparatively lower
than SDFCO. And looking at hospital
networks then SDFC Optima secure
provides access to more than 16,000
network hospitals across India and it's
making cashless treatment more
accessible especially during emergencies
and ICC lumbard elevate offers around
10,000 plus network hospitals which is
reasonable but the reach is relatively
narrower when compared side by side and
in terms of eligibility criteria SDFCO
optima secure allow adult entry from 18
years with no upper age limit and making
it suitable able even for senior
citizens and the policy tenure option
range from 1 to maximum 3 years and the
sum insured can be selected from 5 lakh
and up to 2 K. On the other hand, ICC
Lombard Elevate also starts adult entry
from 18 years but extends it up to 125
years which is quite unique and it
offers a much wider range of summon
inured option starting from a 5 lakh and
going up to 3 cr and even an unlimited
sum inured option and the policy tenure
choices are also more flexible ranging
from 1 year to maximum 5 years. So when
it comes to medical test, SDFC Optima
secure requires premedical test only
after the age of 65 years which is
fairly reasonable and in contrast IC
lumbumber elevate does not require any
medical test making the buying process
simpler and more convenient especially
for older individuals and if we talk in
terms of basic features then let's talk
about room rent because this is one area
where hidden limits can increase your
out-ofpocket expenses in a GFC optimal
secure there is a no room rent limit at
all which means you can choose any
hospital room without worrying about
deduction and in ICC Lombard elevate the
room eligibility is restricted to a
single private AC room which is decent
but is still a defined cap and when we
look at prehospation coverage SDFCO
optima secure covers medical expenses
incurred up to 60 days before
hospitalization whereas ICC lumbard
elevate offers a longer prehospation
cover for 90 days and for post
hospitalization expenses both plans are
aligned and with coverage extended up to
180 days after discharge. And now coming
to the bonus benefit then SDFC Optimus
secure offers this benefit under the
name plus benefit where you receive a
50% bonus every year which can
accumulate up to 100% of the sum in
short and the good part is that this
bonus does not get reduced even if you
make a claim and which is why it is
called a plus benefit and in ICAC
Lombard Elevate plan you will get bonus
20% every year and up to maximum 100%.
But it increases at a slower pace
compared to SDFCO. And if we talk about
advanced treatments, IO treatment, organ
donor expenses, domicillary
hospitalization and modern treatments.
So both SDFCO optima secure and IC
lumbard elevate plan both cover these
benefits up to the sum in short. So on
this front both plans are fairly
matched. And another important feature
in both plan is restoration. SDFCO
Optima secure does offer restoration but
it is not unlimited by default. To get
unlimited restoration you need to add an
optional rider which typically increases
the premium by around 0.5%. And on the
other hand ICC lumbar elevate comes with
unlimited restoration as an inbuilt
feature and it's applicable for both the
same and different illnesses without any
additional cost. And this makes elevator
a strong option for those looking for
automatic and hazard-free backup
coverage during multiple hospitalization
in a single year. When it comes to
preventive health checkups, SDFC go
Optima secure includes this benefit in
build after every policy renewal and
with the amount depending on the chosen
sum insured. And in IC lumbar deleate,
preventive health checkups are not
inbuilt feature. It's available as
optional cover and only on a cashless
basis which slightly limits flexibility.
And looking at consumables expenses then
SDFCO optima secure covers consumable
inbuilt under its protect benefit which
means commonly excluded items during
hospitalization are already taken care
of and in contrast ICC Lombard elevate
covers consumables only as an optional
add-on under the name claim protector
rider which means you need to pay extra
for this coverage and if we talk about
ambulance expenses then SGFCO optima
secure covers road ambulance expenses up
to the sum insured and also includes air
ambulance cover with a maximum limit of
five lakh. ICC Lombard Ali also covers
ambulance expenses up to the sum in
short with a maximum cap of two and half
lakh but air ambulance cover is not as
comprehensive. Let's now look at what
really differentiate these two plans
through their unique features and
add-ons flexibility. So SDFCO optima
secure focuses on strengthening your
base coverage from day one. With the
secure benefit, your coverage
effectively doubles from the very first
day of the policy. And on top of that,
the plus benefit allows you to earn a
bonus of up to 100% without any
reduction after a claim. And the
restoration benefit ensure that your
entire selfinsured is restored and the
protect benefit take carees of
consumable expenses which are usually
excluded in many health insurance plans.
SDFCO's approach is more about inbuilt
protection and simplicity where most
benefits are already part of the core
plan. IC lumbar aliate on the other hand
follows a more modular and feature-heavy
approach. With the infinite care add-on,
you get an one-time infinite claim
amount for a selected claim which can be
extremely useful in high cost treatment.
And the infinite super loyalty bonus
offer 100% loyalty bonus every year
irrespective of claim and can continue
for an indefinite period which combined
with the power booster add-on. And
through the infinite assurance feature,
pre-existing disease can be covered from
the 31st day with the jump start add-on.
And the infinite reset benefit allow
unlimited refill of your coverage,
ensuring multiple claims do not exhaust
your protection. And this plan clearly
emphasize customization and long-term
enhancement through add-ons. And when we
move to optional benefits of SDFCO
Optima secure, so it offers a focused
set of riders and add-ons. It's
including My Health Critical illness, My
Health Hospital Cash Benefit, Unlimited
Restoration Benefit, Individual Personal
Accident Rider, Optima Wellbeing Rider,
which covers your OPD expenses, ABCD
Chronic Care Rider, Limitless Rider, and
Parenthood Rider. With ABCD Chronic Care
Rider, you can cover your pre-existing
disease from the 31st day. With
Limitless Rider, you can claim over and
above your sum in short once in a
lifetime. And with Parenthood Rider, you
can claim maternity expenses subjected
to terms and condition. So these options
are especially helpful for families
planning maternity, people managing
chronic condition or those looking for
wellness focused benefit. IC lumbar
deluate offers a much wider range of
option benefits making it suitable for
users who prefer highly customized
coverage and these includes worldwide
cover, NRI advantage, infinite care,
compassionate visit, chronic disease
management program, senior care value
added services, two hours
hospitalization coverage, power booster
or super loyalty bonus. With claim
protector adder you can cover your
non-medical expenses, inflation
protector, maternity benefit, domestic
air ambulance cover, dependent
accommodation, newborn baby cover,
nursing at home, durable medical
equipment cover, vaccination for
newborns in the first year, health
checkups, befit wellness benefit, teley
consultation and option to reduce
maternity waiting period, personal
accident, critical illness cover,
voluntary co-ayment and room modifier.
So this level of flexibility allow
policy holder to tailor the plan very
closely to their lifestyle and health
needs and you have the option to choose
the deductible option in SDFCO optima
secure as well and looking at waiting
periods both plan start with an initial
waiting period of 30 days for
pre-existing disease SDFCO optima secure
has a waiting period of 36 month and the
same applies to ICIC Lombard Alivate
specified disease and procedures have a
waiting period of 24 months under both
plans ICIC Lombard Alivate intro produce
additional waiting period depending on
the add-on chosen such as 90 days for
critical illnesses, 24 months for
biotetic surgery, 90 days waiting period
for diabetes, hypertension and cardiac
condition if they are if they are not
pre-existing disease and 24 months for
maternity benefit and 24 months for
worldwide coverage. 24 month waiting
period for maternity is the same applied
in SDFCO optima secure as well. When it
comes to discount, SDFCO Optima secure
offers a straightforward savings like a
2.5% loyalty discount, 10% family
discount and long-term discount of 7.5%
for a 2-year policy and 10% for a
three-year policy. ICC lumber deliver
provides more dynamic discount options
including credit score based discount of
up to 15% wellness based discount of up
to 30% and early renewal discount of
2.5% and longer discount of 10% for a
2-year policy and up to 15% discount for
3ear 4 year and 5 year policies and now
let's look at the premium of both plans
June wise the premiums we are showing
are without any add-ons or riders you
can clearly see the base premium of each
plans on the screen and this will help
you understand how much premium you
actually pay for the core coverage
before adding any option benefits. And
now after looking at both plans in
detail, it becomes very clear that even
though SDFCO optima secure and ICC
Lombard Elevate appear similar on the
surface, they are actually designed for
very different type of buyers. SDFCO
Optima Secure is a plan that focuses on
giving you maximum usable coverage with
minimum confusion. From day one, your
base sum insured effectively becomes
four times without paying extra. And the
secure benefit and restoration benefit
that enhance your coverage without
paying any extra premium from your
pocket. And the plus benefit allows your
bonus to grow up to 100% without
reducing after a claim which is a very
strong advantage in real life. And
there's a no room rent limit.
Consumables are already covered in built
restoration work even without exhausting
the base inure. and most important
benefit are part of the core plan rather
than locked behind multiple add-ons and
this makes Optima secure a very
practical choice for families, senior
citizens and anyone who wants a strong
protection without consistently worrying
about condition and extra cost. And on
the other hand, ICC Lombard Elevate is a
plan that is built around customization
and optional power. The unlimited sum
insured optional infinite care, infinite
reset benefit and early coverage of
pre-existing disease through add-on
sounds extremely attractive and for some
users they can be very useful. So many
of these powerful features come at an
additional cost and depends heavily on
which add-on you select. Room rent is
kept consumables are optional and
several benefits that look impressive on
paper require careful selection and
higher premium to actually deliver
value. So elevate works better for
people who are comfortable designing
their policy layer by layer and are
willing to pay extra for highly
specialized benefits. So if your
priority is to get a strong predictable
coverage that works smoothly during
claims, SDFC Optimus Secure clearly
offers better value for money in most
real life scenarios and it delivers what
it promises without making you depend
too much on add-ons and that make it
more reliable for long-term use. And on
the other hand, ICC Lombard Elevate is
not a bad plan, but it is not for
everyone. It is more suitable for buyers
who especially want unlimited cover,
optional, global features or advanced
add-ons and are clear about what they
are paying for. Otherwise, for an
average buyer, it can sometimes feel
more like a future heavy plan that looks
powerful but need careful handling to
avoid unnecessary premium outgo. So in
simple terms SDFC optima secure offers
more value up front where your base
minimum already includes most practical
benefits. Isis lumbumber elevate offers
more control and scalability but that
flexibility comes with higher complexity
and potentially higher long-term cost
and the right choice ultimately depends
on what kind of buyer you are. So if you
want a plan that work well straight out
of the box with minimal add-ons, SDFC
Optima secure makes more sense and if
you're comfortable customizing your
policy and paying extra for advanc or
future focus features, ICC Lombard
Elevate can be a strong option and this
is exactly why it's important not to
choose a health insurance plan based on
hype or headline feature alone. What
truly matters is how much real coverage
you get for the premium you pay and how
well the plan support you when you
actually need it. I hope this comparison
clears your all doubts and if it is then
do like and share this video and
subscribe our channel. See you in the
next video. Until then, bye.